README.md, before:

# Land Grid Support Site

# Writing content using the Prose editor

1.  Browse to https://prose.io and log in using your Github account

2.  Browse to http://prose.io/#loveland/landgrid-support (the Loveland team, and the Support project)

3.  Browse to the `_articles` folder

4.  Either select the article you want to
    edit, or create a new file.

- To create a new article, copy an existing
  one as a template and save it with a short filename (this will become the URL).

5.  You can format text using the toolbar at the top, which uses [Markdown formatting](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet). To add images, you can drag and drop in files.

6.  You edit the metadata by clicking the icon that looks like a table (several
    stacked lines) on the right-hand side of the screen.
    
7.  Click "publish" in the top bar if it's not already published

There are three important pieces of metadata:

**Intro**: a short sentence or two that introduces the page

**Weight**: A number (between zero and anything) that controls the sort order
of the article. Articles with larger weights "sink" to the bottom of lists.

**Category**
Controls which section of the site

7.  When done, save your changes and they'll be published.

# Developing

## Prereqs

Make sure to load the schema submodule: 

```
git submodule update --init
```

You might want to configure git to automatically recurse commands to submodules:

```
git config --global submodule.recurse true
```

If you do that, `git pull` will automatically pull subrepository changes. 

You'll need Ruby, and jekyll, a ruby gem:

`gem install jekyll`

## Run the site for development

This will run jekyll. It'll watch for changes, automatically build the site,
and serve it locally at http://localhost:4000.

`jekyll serve`

## Where are the files?

Templates are in the root directory. The generated site is in `/_site`.

## Categories

Edit these in `_config.yml`. You'll need to edit the `category-list` up top and
the prose config at the bottom of the file.

## Updating the schema 

The schema lives at `_data/schema.yml`

Commit message:

First pass on the Netlify CMS

README.md, after:

# Land Grid Support Site

# Writing content using the Prose editor

1.  Browse to https://prose.io and log in using your Github account

2.  Browse to http://prose.io/#loveland/landgrid-support (the Loveland team, and the Support project)

3.  Browse to the `_articles` folder

4.  Either select the article you want to
    edit, or create a new file.

- To create a new article, copy an existing
  one as a template and save it with a short filename (this will become the URL).

5.  You can format text using the toolbar at the top, which uses [Markdown formatting](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet). To add images, you can drag and drop in files.

6.  You edit the metadata by clicking the icon that looks like a table (several
    stacked lines) on the right-hand side of the screen.
    
7.  Click "publish" in the top bar if it's not already published

There are three important pieces of metadata:

**Intro**: a short sentence or two that introduces the page

**Weight**: A number (between zero and anything) that controls the sort order
of the article. Articles with larger weights "sink" to the bottom of lists.

**Category**
Controls which section of the site

7.  When done, save your changes and they'll be published.

# Developing

## Prereqs

Make sure to load the schema submodule: 

```
git submodule update --init
```

You might want to configure git to automatically recurse commands to submodules:

```
git config --global submodule.recurse true
```

If you do that, `git pull` will automatically pull subrepository changes. 

You'll need Ruby, and jekyll, a ruby gem:

`gem install jekyll`

## Run the site for development

This will run jekyll. It'll watch for changes, automatically build the site,
and serve it locally at http://localhost:4000.

`jekyll serve`

## Where are the files?

Templates are in the root directory. The generated site is in `/_site`.

## Categories

Edit these in `_config.yml`. You'll need to edit the `category-list` up top and
the prose config at the bottom of the file. You will also need to update
the category list in `admin/config.yml` 

## Updating the schema 

The schema lives at `_data/schema.yml`

## Netlify editor

We have installed the [Netlify CMS](https://www.netlifycms.org/) at `/admin`. 
The config lives in `/admin/config.yml`.
