_articles/using-the-tileserver.md, before:

---
weight: 1
category: Data and API
published: true
intro: How developers can use the Loveland tileserver
title: Using the Tileserver
---

The Loveland Tileserver provides parcel tiles in raster and vector formats for use with web mapping tools like [Mapbox GL](https://www.mapbox.com/help/define-mapbox-gl/) and [Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/). This service is available to clients with a [nationwide data license](https://landgrid.com/parcels) or [tileserver API subscription](https://landgrid.com/tiles).

Please direct feedback, bugs and questions to [help@landgrid.com](mailto:help@landgrid.com).

## Tileserver API

All requests will be to the `https://tiles.makeloveland.com` domain, with the paths described below per-request.

### Authentication and tokens

All requests to the Tileserver API must include a `token` parameter. The same Loveland/Landgrid API Tokens can be used for all of our APIs. If you have a working token for any Landgrid API, that token will work for all our APIs, including our Tileserver.

Please contact us via [team@landgrid.com](mailto:team@landgrid.com) to get an API Token if you do not have one yet.

### Standard parcel tiles

Landgrid provides a styleable, seamless, nationwide layer of parcel outlines in vector ([MVT](https://www.mapbox.com/vector-tiles/specification/)) and raster (PNG) formats.

#### TileJSON

We serve [TileJSON](https://www.mapbox.com/help/define-tilejson/)-formatted metadata for generic parcel tiles which is used to get the full url to either our raster or vector tile layers:

* Raster tiles: `/api/v1/parcels`
* Vector tiles: `/api/v1/parcels?format=mvt`

Our TileJSON includes the required "tiles" endpoint array. The url(s) in that key are the layer urls to use in your application. We also include a "grid" endpoint [for UTF grids](https://blog.mapbox.com/how-interactivity-works-with-utfgrid-3b7d437f9ca9) and we put our vector tile endpoint in each response with the key "vector".

#### Tiles

The base tile path is `/api/v1/parcels/{z}/{x}/{y}.format`. Supported formats are `mvt`, `png`, and `json` ([for UTF grids](https://blog.mapbox.com/how-interactivity-works-with-utfgrid-3b7d437f9ca9)). PNG tiles are provided with the default loveland style.

#### Leaflet raster layer example

To add raster tiles to a Leaflet map:

```
L.tileLayer(
  'https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/parcels/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?token='
).addTo(map)
```

#### Mapbox GL JS vector example

```
<html>
  <head>
    <script
    src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.4.1.min.js"
    integrity="sha256-CSXorXvZcTkaix6Yvo6HppcZGetbYMGWSFlBw8HfCJo="
    crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
    <script src='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v1.2.1/mapbox-gl.js'></script>
    <link href='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v1.2.1/mapbox-gl.css' rel='stylesheet' />
    <style>
      body, #map {
        height: 100vh;
        width: 100vw;
      }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="map"></div>

    <script>
      var url = 'https://tiles.makeloveland.com'
      mapboxgl.accessToken = 'pk.'; // Insert your Mapbox token here
      var map = new mapboxgl.Map({
        container: 'map',
        style: 'mapbox://styles/mapbox/light-v9',
        zoom: 15,
        center: [-83.139981, 42.398763],
        showTileBoundaries: true
      });
      map.showTileBoundaries = true;

      map.on('load', function () {
        // Create a parcel layer
        var parcelCreate = $.ajax({
          url: url + '/api/v1/parcels?format=mvt&token=',
          type: 'GET',
          contentType: 'application/json',
          dataType: 'json'
        });
        parcelCreate.fail(function(jqXHR, textStatus, errorThrown) {
          console.log('Error getting parcel layer', jqXHR, textStatus, errorThrown);
        });

        $.when(parcelCreate).then(setup);

        function setup(layerData) {
          var data = layerData;
          console.log('Got parcel layer', layerData);

          // Register the parcel source using the tile URL we just got
          map.addSource(data.id, {
            type: 'vector',
            tiles: data.tiles
          });

          // Add basic parcel outlines
          map.addLayer({
            'id': 'parcels',
            'type': 'line',
            'source': data.id,
            'source-layer': data.id,
            'minzoom': 13,
            'maxzoom': 20,
            layout: {
              visibility: 'visible'
            },
            'paint': {
              'line-color': '#649d8d'
            }
          });
        };
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### ArcGIS Online (AGOL)

ArcGISOnline TiledLayer works with our raster tile layer, but the `{z}/{x}/{y}` of our urls needs to be changed to the literal text string that looks like this: `{level}/{col}/{row}`

You literally leave those `level`, `col`, and `row` words in there instead of the `z,x,y` our TileJson returns in URLs:

```
AGSWebTiledLayer(urlTemplate: "https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/parcels/{level}/{col}/{row}.png?token=
```

#### ArcGIS Desktop

ArcGIS Desktop products only support Esri based vector tile layers. However, ArcGIS Desktop users can also use our raster tiles for integrations using the same template as ArcGIS Online: 

```
https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/parcels/{level}/{col}/{row}.png?token=
```

### Custom layers

You can create a custom Layer to get tiles with custom styles and data returned.

A Layer defines the set of data and, for raster tiles, styles, that you get in a tile. Each layer has a unique ID. Each unqiue set of styles, fields, and queries defines new layer -- you cannot edit existing layers, just create new ones.

#### How to create a custom layer

The basic order of operations to create a custom layer is:

1. POST JSON to define the styles or custom data for the layer.
2. Read the response TileJSON to get the new layer's url(s).
3. Use the urls specified in the response on your map.

##### Layer creation endpoint

`POST /api/v1/sources?token=`

**Request parameters:**
* `format` (optional): The format of tiles you want. Defaults to `png`. Specify `mvt` for Mapbox Vector Tile format tiles. 

**Request body:**

The JSON for a layer definition has these parameters:

- `query`: Set to `parcel: true` to select parcel data
- `fields` (optional): A list of [standard schema columns](/articles/schema) to include. By default, tiles include `address`, `owner`, and `path`
- `styles` (optional): A string of [CartoCSS styles](https://carto.com/developers/styling/cartocss/) (see "composing styles" below). We apply a set of default Loveland styles if you don't specify any

**Sample request body:**

This layer requests parcels with a custom line color and additional fields:

```
POST /api/v1/sources?token=
{
  "query": {
    "parcel": true
  },
  "fields": {
    "parcel": ["usecode", "usedesc", "parval", "landval"]
  },
  "styles": "Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); } #loveland { line-color: #69387a; }"
}
```

**Sample layer request response:**

You will get a [TileJSON response](https://www.mapbox.com/help/define-tilejson/) response that includes:

- a unique layer ID
- the tile URL template for use in slippy maps
- the query, fields and styles you submitted

**Warning**: Do not cache or otherwise store the layer ID or tile path between
sessions. The layer ID and paths you receive may change at any time.
Always recreate the layer by POSTing your layer definition again.

```
{
    "tilejson": "2.1.0",
    "id": "e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be",
    "maxZoom": 21,
    "tiles": ["https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources/parcel/layers/e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?token="],
    "grids": ["https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources/parcel/layers/e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be/{z}/{x}/{y}.json?token="],
    "vector": ["https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources/parcel/layers/e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be/{z}/{x}/{y}.mvt?token="],
    "query": {
        "parcel": true,
        "operation": "intersection"
    },
    "fields": {
        "parcel": [
            "usecode",
            "usedesc",
            "parval",
            "landval"
        ]
    },
    "styles": "Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); } #loveland { line-color: #69387a; }"
}
```

##### Custom raster map styles

You can style raster tiles (.pngs) by writing [CartoCSS styles](https://carto.com/developers/styling/cartocss/). Styles should be applied to the `#loveland` layer.

Some sample styles that illustrate styling based on zoom level:

```
#loveland {
  line-color: #69387a;
  line-width: 0.25;

  [zoom >= 14] { line-opacity: 0.5; }
  [zoom >= 15] { line-width: 1.5; line-opacity: 1;}
  [zoom >= 17] { line-width: 2.5; }
  [zoom >= 18] { line-width: 3; }
}
```

You can change the map's background color with `Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); }`. That value specifies a transparent background, but you can put in any color.

##### Leaflet raster layer example

This snippet of code creates a custom layer with red parcel polygons and adds it to a leaflet map:

```
$.ajax({
  method: 'POST',
  url: 'https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources?token=...',
  contentType: 'application/json; charset=utf-8',
  dataType: 'json',
  data: JSON.stringify({
    "query": {
      "parcel": true,
    },
    "styles": "Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); } #loveland { polygon-fill: #FF0000; }",
  }),
}).done(function(data) {
  console.log('Got layer', data);
  L.tileLayer(data.tiles[0]).addTo(map);
});
```

##### Custom vector map styles

Vector maps are styled client-side, and do not require a custom layer. Your mapping platform (for example, Mapbox GL or Tangram) will have detailed documentation on how to style data.

Commit message:

Use the same token language as using-the-api

_articles/using-the-tileserver.md, after:

---
weight: 1
category: Data and API
published: true
intro: How developers can use the Loveland tileserver
title: Using the Tileserver
---

The Loveland Tileserver provides parcel tiles in raster and vector formats for use with web mapping tools like [Mapbox GL](https://www.mapbox.com/help/define-mapbox-gl/) and [Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/). This service is available to clients with a [nationwide data license](https://landgrid.com/parcels) or [tileserver API subscription](https://landgrid.com/tiles).

Please direct feedback, bugs and questions to [help@landgrid.com](mailto:help@landgrid.com).

## Tileserver API

### Endpoint

All requests will be to the `https://tiles.makeloveland.com` domain, with the paths described below per request.

### Authentication and tokens

All requests to the API must include a `token` parameter. If you have an API subscription or Loveland data license, you can find this in **Account Settings > Preferences** after logging into your account at [landgrid.com](landgrid.com). The same Landgrid API tokens can be used for all of our APIs.

### Standard parcel tiles

Landgrid provides a styleable, seamless, nationwide layer of parcel outlines in vector ([MVT](https://www.mapbox.com/vector-tiles/specification/)) and raster (PNG) formats.

#### TileJSON

We serve [TileJSON](https://www.mapbox.com/help/define-tilejson/)-formatted metadata for generic parcel tiles which is used to get the full url to either our raster or vector tile layers:

* Raster tiles: `/api/v1/parcels`
* Vector tiles: `/api/v1/parcels?format=mvt`

Our TileJSON includes the required "tiles" endpoint array. The url(s) in that key are the layer urls to use in your application. We also include a "grid" endpoint [for UTF grids](https://blog.mapbox.com/how-interactivity-works-with-utfgrid-3b7d437f9ca9) and we put our vector tile endpoint in each response with the key "vector".

#### Tiles

The base tile path is `/api/v1/parcels/{z}/{x}/{y}.format`. Supported formats are `mvt`, `png`, and `json` ([for UTF grids](https://blog.mapbox.com/how-interactivity-works-with-utfgrid-3b7d437f9ca9)). PNG tiles are provided with the default loveland style.

#### Using tiles in your app

##### Leaflet raster layer example

To add raster tiles to a Leaflet map:

```
L.tileLayer(
  'https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/parcels/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?token='
).addTo(map)
```

##### Mapbox GL JS vector example

```
<html>
  <head>
    <script
    src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.4.1.min.js"
    integrity="sha256-CSXorXvZcTkaix6Yvo6HppcZGetbYMGWSFlBw8HfCJo="
    crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
    <script src='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v1.2.1/mapbox-gl.js'></script>
    <link href='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v1.2.1/mapbox-gl.css' rel='stylesheet' />
    <style>
      body, #map {
        height: 100vh;
        width: 100vw;
      }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="map"></div>

    <script>
      var url = 'https://tiles.makeloveland.com'
      mapboxgl.accessToken = 'pk.'; // Insert your Mapbox token here
      var map = new mapboxgl.Map({
        container: 'map',
        style: 'mapbox://styles/mapbox/light-v9',
        zoom: 15,
        center: [-83.139981, 42.398763],
        showTileBoundaries: true
      });
      map.showTileBoundaries = true;

      map.on('load', function () {
        // Create a parcel layer
        var parcelCreate = $.ajax({
          url: url + '/api/v1/parcels?format=mvt&token=',
          type: 'GET',
          contentType: 'application/json',
          dataType: 'json'
        });
        parcelCreate.fail(function(jqXHR, textStatus, errorThrown) {
          console.log('Error getting parcel layer', jqXHR, textStatus, errorThrown);
        });

        $.when(parcelCreate).then(setup);

        function setup(layerData) {
          var data = layerData;
          console.log('Got parcel layer', layerData);

          // Register the parcel source using the tile URL we just got
          map.addSource(data.id, {
            type: 'vector',
            tiles: data.tiles
          });

          // Add basic parcel outlines
          map.addLayer({
            'id': 'parcels',
            'type': 'line',
            'source': data.id,
            'source-layer': data.id,
            'minzoom': 13,
            'maxzoom': 20,
            layout: {
              visibility: 'visible'
            },
            'paint': {
              'line-color': '#649d8d'
            }
          });
        };
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

##### ArcGIS Online (AGOL)

ArcGISOnline TiledLayer works with our raster tile layer, but the `{z}/{x}/{y}` of our urls needs to be changed to the literal text string that looks like this: `{level}/{col}/{row}`

You literally leave those `level`, `col`, and `row` words in there instead of the `z,x,y` our TileJson returns in URLs:

```
AGSWebTiledLayer(urlTemplate: "https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/parcels/{level}/{col}/{row}.png?token=
```

##### ArcGIS Desktop

ArcGIS Desktop products only support Esri based vector tile layers. However, ArcGIS Desktop users can also use our raster tiles for integrations using the same template as ArcGIS Online: 

```
https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/parcels/{level}/{col}/{row}.png?token=
```

### Custom layers

You can create a custom Layer to get tiles with custom styles and data returned.

A Layer defines the set of data and, for raster tiles, styles, that you get in a tile. Each layer has a unique ID. Each unqiue set of styles, fields, and queries defines new layer -- you cannot edit existing layers, just create new ones.

#### How to create a custom layer

The basic order of operations to create a custom layer is:

1. POST JSON to define the styles or custom data for the layer.
2. Read the response TileJSON to get the new layer's url(s).
3. Use the urls specified in the response on your map.

##### Layer creation endpoint

`POST /api/v1/sources?token=`

**Request parameters:**
* `format` (optional): The format of tiles you want. Defaults to `png`. Specify `mvt` for Mapbox Vector Tile format tiles. 

**Request body:**

The JSON for a layer definition has these parameters:

- `query`: Set to `parcel: true` to select parcel data
- `fields` (optional): A list of [standard schema columns](/articles/schema) to include. By default, tiles include `address`, `owner`, and `path`
- `styles` (optional): A string of [CartoCSS styles](https://carto.com/developers/styling/cartocss/) (see "composing styles" below). We apply a set of default Loveland styles if you don't specify any

**Sample request body:**

This layer requests parcels with a custom line color and additional fields:

```
POST /api/v1/sources?token=
{
  "query": {
    "parcel": true
  },
  "fields": {
    "parcel": ["usecode", "usedesc", "parval", "landval"]
  },
  "styles": "Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); } #loveland { line-color: #69387a; }"
}
```

**Sample layer request response:**

You will get a [TileJSON response](https://www.mapbox.com/help/define-tilejson/) response that includes:

- a unique layer ID
- the tile URL template for use in slippy maps
- the query, fields and styles you submitted

**Warning**: Do not cache or otherwise store the layer ID or tile path between
sessions. The layer ID and paths you receive may change at any time.
Always recreate the layer by POSTing your layer definition again.

```
{
    "tilejson": "2.1.0",
    "id": "e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be",
    "maxZoom": 21,
    "tiles": ["https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources/parcel/layers/e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?token="],
    "grids": ["https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources/parcel/layers/e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be/{z}/{x}/{y}.json?token="],
    "vector": ["https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources/parcel/layers/e13c4cd22eaf5a751552692075fd04f5c7d741be/{z}/{x}/{y}.mvt?token="],
    "query": {
        "parcel": true,
        "operation": "intersection"
    },
    "fields": {
        "parcel": [
            "usecode",
            "usedesc",
            "parval",
            "landval"
        ]
    },
    "styles": "Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); } #loveland { line-color: #69387a; }"
}
```

##### Custom raster map styles

You can style raster tiles (.pngs) by writing [CartoCSS styles](https://carto.com/developers/styling/cartocss/). Styles should be applied to the `#loveland` layer.

Some sample styles that illustrate styling based on zoom level:

```
#loveland {
  line-color: #69387a;
  line-width: 0.25;

  [zoom >= 14] { line-opacity: 0.5; }
  [zoom >= 15] { line-width: 1.5; line-opacity: 1;}
  [zoom >= 17] { line-width: 2.5; }
  [zoom >= 18] { line-width: 3; }
}
```

You can change the map's background color with `Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); }`. That value specifies a transparent background, but you can put in any color.

##### Leaflet raster layer example

This snippet of code creates a custom layer with red parcel polygons and adds it to a leaflet map:

```
$.ajax({
  method: 'POST',
  url: 'https://tiles.makeloveland.com/api/v1/sources?token=...',
  contentType: 'application/json; charset=utf-8',
  dataType: 'json',
  data: JSON.stringify({
    "query": {
      "parcel": true,
    },
    "styles": "Map { background-color: rgba(0,0,0,0); } #loveland { polygon-fill: #FF0000; }",
  }),
}).done(function(data) {
  console.log('Got layer', data);
  L.tileLayer(data.tiles[0]).addTo(map);
});
```

##### Custom vector map styles

Vector maps are styled client-side, and do not require a custom layer. Your mapping platform (for example, Mapbox GL or Tangram) will have detailed documentation on how to style data.
